Welcome back! In this video,
we're going to discuss some
resources that are available
directly through
the shell and can
help you while working in Linux.
One of the great
things about Linux is
that you can get help right
through the command line.
The first command that can
help you in this way is: man.
man displays information on
other commands and
how they work.
The name of this command
comes from the word manual.
Let's examine this
more closely by using
man to get information
about the usermod command.
After man, we type the
name of this command.
The information that man
returns includes a
general description.
It also contains information
about each of usermod's options.
For example, the
option -d can be
added to usermod to change
a user's home directory.
man provides a lot
of information,
but sometimes we just need
a quick reference on
what a command does.
In that case, you use whatis.
whatis displays a description
of a command on a single line.
Let's say you heard
a co-worker
mention a command like tail.
You've never heard of
this command before,
but you can find
out what it does.
Simply use the command,
whatis tail, and learn that
it outputs the last
part of files.
Sometimes we might not even
know what command to look up.
This is where
apropos can help us.
apropos searches the
manual page descriptions
for a specified string.
Let's try it out.
Let's say you have a task that
requires you to
change a password,
but you're not quite
sure how to do this.
If we use the apropos command
with the string password,
this will display a large number
of commands with that word.
This helps somewhat,
but it still may be difficult
to find what we need.
But we can filter this by adding
the -a option and
an additional string.
This option will return
only the commands that
contain both strings.
In our case, since we want
to change the password,
let's look for commands with
both: change and password.
Now, the output has been
limited to the most
relevant commands.
These commands make it a lot
easier to navigate the
Linux command line.
As a new analyst,
you won't have all the
answers all the time,
but you can learn
where to find them.